Exercise 1.1 (#147)
RoboJackets/software-training: assignments/week_1/exercise_1_1/exercise_1_1.md

# Exercise 1.1
Welcome to your first exercise of RoboJackets software training! Exercises are shorter and simpler assignments where you will be walked through how to write certain code. This exercise will be testing your knowledge of basic C++ syntax as well as basic programming concepts. For this exercise we expect you to have watched or know the content of the Codecademy C++ course up through vectors.

> # Exercise Objective

Reviewer: Can we include a picture of an example robot with a graphic. I am having trouble getting an idea of what the robot configuration is.

> Welcome to your first exercise of RoboJackets software training! Exercises are shorter an simpler assignments where you will be walked through how to write certain code. This exercise will be testing your knowledge of basic C++ syntax as well as basic programming concepts. For this exercise we expect you to have watched or know the content of the Codecademy C++ course up through vectors, as well as our own video about types.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Welcome to your first exercise of RoboJackets software training! Exercises are shorter and simpler assignments where you will be walked through how to write certain code. This exercise will be testing your knowledge of basic C++ syntax as well as basic programming concepts. For this exercise we expect you to have watched or know the content of the Codecademy C++ course up through vectors.
```

In this exercise you will be controlling the movements of a robot with 4 wheels via the command line. The goal is to create a system that will move a robot left, right, forwards or backwards depending on input by the user. Every time the direction of the robot is inputted by the user, the robot should print out the speed each wheel is going. The robot should also continuously check for user input until it is told to stop by the user.

> 

Reviewer 2: This section should include a description of how the pretend robot is configured. Is it a tank drive? Omni directional? Be sure to also include a brief explanation of how the robot achieves different directional movement. For example, most of the students are not going to have any familiarity with how omni directional drive bases work, so that would need a good explanation (probably with a picture or two) of how different wheel speeds result in different directions of motion. Be sure to include which wheel index matches which wheel (front, left, etc. or whatever names make sense)

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  ```c++
  wheel_speeds[0] -= 0.5;
  wheel_speeds[2] -= 0.5;
  wheel_speeds[1] += 1;
  wheel_speeds[3] += 1;
  ```
  
</details>

6. Within the else if statement for ‘s’, create a for loop which decreases each float in wheel_speeds by 1.
<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  ```c++
  for (int i = 0; i < 4; i++) {
    wheel_speeds[i]--;
  }
  ```
  
</details>

7. Within the if else statement for ‘d’, decrement the floats at indices 2 and 3 by 0.5 and increment the floats at indices 0 and 1 by 0.5 in the wheel_speeds vector.
<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  ```c++
  wheel_speeds[0] += 1;
  wheel_speeds[2] += 1;
  wheel_speeds[1] -= 0.5;
  wheel_speeds[3] -= 0.5;
  ```
  
</details>

8. Within the if else statement for ‘e’, create a for loop which SETS all wheel speeds to 0, then create a print statement that prints “Shutting Down” and set the the keep_going boolean to false to stop the while loop from continuing.
<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  ```c++
  for (int i = 0; i < 4; i++) {
    wheel_speeds[i] = 0;
  }

>   std::cout << "Shutting down\n";

Reviewer 2: Per our FAQ:
```suggestion
  std::cout << "Shutting down" << std::endl;
```

# Exercise Objective
In this exercise you will be controlling the movements of a car like robot with 4 wheels via the command line. The robot looks like a simple car with 4 wheels, each numbered as shown below. All 4 wheel speeds are controlled independently of each other and can move either forward (positive speed) or backward (negative speed). Since the wheels do not pivot, to turn left the left wheels must be moving slower than the right wheels. Similarly to turn right the right wheels must be going slower than the left wheels. The goal is to create a system that will let the robot move forward, backward, and turn left or right while moving forward. Every time the direction of the robot is inputted by the user, the robot should print out the speed each wheel is going. The robot should also continuously check for user input until it is told to stop by the user. 

> ![alt text](https://github.com/HussainGynai/software-training/blob/master/exercise_1.1_robot.PNG)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
![alt text](exercise_1.1_robot.PNG)
```

# Starting Code
We have already given you a main() function to write your code in and have included the proper libraries for you to use. We have also set up most of the while loop where you will write most of your code; the keep_going boolean will be used to trigger then end of the while loop, so you will need to change its value at some point. We have also set up the user input which is stored in the char variable, direction; this is the variable that you need to check for what was inputted.

```c++
//Do not edit the next 5 lines

> #include <stdlib.h>

Reviewer 2: This line was removed from the actual code, but left in the instructions.
```suggestion
```

#include <iostream>
#include <vector>

> int main(int argc, char** argv) {

Reviewer 2: Omit `argc` and `argv` if we're not using them.
```suggestion
int main() {
```

> 	std::cout << "Use the wasd keys and enter to input a direction, or the E key to stop" << std::endl;

Reviewer 2: nit: replace tab with spaces
```suggestion
    std::cout << "Use the wasd keys and enter to input a direction, or the E key to stop" << std::endl;
```

    // Write your code for step 1 here

    // Write your code for step 2 here
   
    // Do not edit the next 5 lines
    bool keep_going = true;

>     char direction;

Reviewer 2: You fixed this in the solution, but the starter code and instructions need to be updated to initialize this variable.
```suggestion
    char direction = 0;
```

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  ```c++
  wheel_speeds[0] = 0.5;
  wheel_speeds[2] = 0.5;
  wheel_speeds[1] = 1;
  wheel_speeds[3] = 1;
  ```
  
</details>

6. Within the else if statement for ‘s’, create a for loop which sets each float in wheel_speeds to -1.
<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  ```c++
  for (int i = 0; i < 4; i++) {
    wheel_speeds[i] = -1;
  }
  ```
  
</details>

7. Within the if else statement for ‘d’, set the floats at indices 1 and 3 to 0.5 and set the floats at indices 0 and 2 to 0.5 in the wheel_speeds vector.
<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  ```c++
  wheel_speeds[0] = 1;
  wheel_speeds[2] = 1;
  wheel_speeds[1] = 0.5;
  wheel_speeds[3] = 0.5;
  ```
  
</details>

8. Within the if else statement for ‘e’, create a for loop which sets all wheel speeds to 0, then create a print statement that prints “Shutting Down” and set the the keep_going boolean to false to stop the while loop from continuing.
<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  ```c++
  for (int i = 0; i < 4; i++) {
    wheel_speeds[i] = 0;
  }
  std::cout << "Shutting down\n";
  keep_going = false;
  ```
  
</details>

> 9. Within the else statement create a print statement which prints “Sorry I didn’t get that, try again” on a line by itself.
> <details>
>   <summary>Answer</summary>
> 
>   ```c++
>   std::cout << "Sorry I didn't get that, try again" << std::endl;

Reviewer 2: This should be updated to match the solution code.
```suggestion
9. Within the else statement create a print statement which prints “Sorry, I didn’t get that. Try again.” on a line by itself.
<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  ```c++
  std::cout << "Sorry, I didn't get that.  Try again." << std::endl;
```
